Dear New Columba User,

Your Columba Development Team wishes to Thank You for trying out Columba.

Columba has been under continuous development for several years and we 
continue to watch what functionality is being delivered by all the new Email 
clients and we believe that we have several points that make Columba one of 
the best.

As you continue to trial Columba, you will find that it is very speedy in the 
way it operates. We also try to deliver a non-bloated software product while 
enabling Columba to be extended through the use of plugins and scripting. 

We have a very diverse development team and we strive to have Columba useful 
by people all over the world. We want you to be able to enter text in a 
similar fashion to what you do in all your other programs and we are trying 
to have our sofware internationalised for use in as many Countries / cultures 
as possible.

If you can help us by translating to further languages or if you notice any 
faults in out existing translations, please let us know in one of the mailing 
lists at Sourceforge below or on our new website. 

We release all our software through the Sourceforge network so that you can be 
assured of availabilty of our software and it source code in a timely 
fashion. 

If you are a Java developer and would like to help us maintain and develop 
Columba, we would welcome your assistance. All developers bring different 
experience which helps make Columba even better. Even if you cannot write 
program code, if you like writing documentation or help with the more 
aesthetic elements of Columba, we would welcome any help you are able to 
provide.

Our new website can be found at http://columbamail.org
Our Sourceforge site is at http://sourceforge.net/projects/columba 

We welcome all opinions on Columba as it stands now and into the future with 
functionality that you need. Please help us to help you!

Best Regards,

Columba Development Team