README for mod_jk

$Id: README,v 1.1 2000/08/26 01:21:38 alex Exp $

Please see doc/mod_jk-howto.html for more verbose instructions

* What is mod_jk?

mod_jk is a connector (plugin) for the Apache Web Server that allows
Tomcat to run as Apache's servlet engine.  It intercepts requests for
Servlets and JSPs and sends them to a running Tomcat server; it then
captures Tomcat's response and sends it back through Apache to the web
client.

* What happened to mod_jserv?

mod_jk is intended as a replacement for mod_jserv (both the Apache and
Jakarta flavors).  The Jakarta project recommends you use mod_jk
instead of mod_jserv, since it has advantages in performance and
functionality.

* Where do I get a mod_jk binary?

Unfortunately, we are not able to provide binaries for mod_jk.  You
will have to build (compile) a binary for your platform.

* OK, then how do I build mod_jk?

For Unix:

Change to the mod_jk/apache1.3 or mod_jk/apache2.0 directory,
depending on which version of Apache you are running.

Execute "./build-unix.sh"  This script sets some environment variables
and then calls Apache's apxs script to do the actual compile.

If this doesn't work, please check the source for build-unix.sh.  You
may have to edit some variables.

Alternately, you may have more luck with the makefiles.  Execute them
with e.g. "make -f Makefile.linux mod_jk.so"

For Windows:

[write me]

Note that there's a mod_jk.dsp file for use with Microsoft Developer
Studio [???]

* How do I install mod_jk.so?

Copy mod_jk.so into your APACHE_HOME/libexec

Add the following line to APACHE_HOME/conf/httpd.conf.  Replace
"TOMCAT_HOME" with the actual directory name.

   Include TOMCAT_HOME/conf/mod_jk.conf-auto

That's it!

When Tomcat starts, it automatically writes out mod_jk.conf-auto based
on your server.xml settings.  If this is inadequate for your needs,
you can copy mod_jk.conf-auto to a new file called "mod_jk.conf" and
then change httpd.conf to read

   Include TOMCAT_HOME/conf/mod_jk.conf

Note that Tomcat must be started *before* Apache for mod_jk to
initialize correctly.  Since "tomcat.sh start" launches Tomcat in the
background, you may have to do something like the following in your
startup script:

	cd $TOMCAT_HOME/bin
	./tomcat.sh start
	sleep 4
	$APACHE_HOME/bin/apachectl start

[Note: apachectl should be run as root, but Tomcat should be run as a
local user; this means that the above script would lead to a security
problem. Any suggestions to fix?]

* Where do I report bugs/errors?
 
See http://jakarta.apache.org/getinvolved/mail.html and
http://jakarta.apache.org/bugs/index.html for information.

---
Credits:
mod_jk written by Gal Shachor and many others
README and .sh scripts written by Alex Chaffee
